so this time I'll be talking about
neural semantic parsing um this time is
significantly more applications oriented
and less algorithms oriented than the
previous time so I'm going to be talking
about a lot of things you can do with a
lot of the methods that we have but we
have there is a little bit of like the
special stuff that you need to do for
for semantic parsing mixed in there but
I'm happy to take lots of lots of
questions this time because I also don't
have a huge huge number of slides the
reading material was just um it was
recommended but not required and part of
the reason why it was because they were
there was lots of it but if you're
interested in semantics I think it was
explained quite well in a way that you
don't see a whole lot of in papers so
it's very like I don't know the the
material seems a little bit old-school
in some ways but knowing knowing the
material well can help you come up with
good ideas for your new neural methods
so what we talked about the past two
times was tree structures of syntax like
dependencies or phrase structure and
these you know basically show us the
structure of the sentence but sometimes
we'll also want to handle semantics in
semantics um basically we would like to
know what the sentence really means um
but what what does meaning mean like
with what what is the meaning of meaning
is a very difficult thing to define and
if the people who did take a look at the
reading material probably realized that
it's very complicated and it's not easy
to come up with a good semantic
representation so I think a lot of
semantic parsing research or some a lot
of research
on handling semantics nowadays kind of
takes a very direct approach that
grounds semantics in the particular task
that you would like to be doing so for
example a machine could answer answer
questions if you ask a question is it
able to answer this and by accessing
some database or something like that or
follow commands so you tell you tell
your Roomba to to vacuum this half of
the room and that vacuums only this half
of the room instead of vacuuming like
this room the entire entirety of this
room and your kitchen and and your foyer
or whatever
unfortunately Roomba cannot do this yet
I don't think but if it could that'd be
great and then there's lots of other
things that you could you could consider
asking your computer to do so
representations of meanings there's lots
of different ones
there's special-purpose representations
that are designed for a specific task um
there's also general-purpose
representations and these
general-purpose representations are
basically designed to allow you to do
anything and that was mainly what the
reading materials were talking about
they were talking about you know judging
whether two sentences mean the same
thing and then you can take these
general-purpose representations and
convert them in some way to the sort of
thing that you want to do or
operationalize um and then there's also
kind of shallow representations that
aren't aiming to get the entire meaning
of the sentence but to get particular
parts of the sentence that are that
would still be useful for some
particular things um so I'll first I'll
talk about special purpose meaning
representations and there's lots of
examples of these are there
questions so far comments okay so um
there are some examples so one is a
database would be a database query
language for sentence understanding so
I'm sure if you use Google particularly
if you've used Google and English
nowadays you see that it can answer a
lot of your questions so and it can
answer them in a number of different
ways sometimes it answers your
structured queries with the specific
answers so if you say what is the
population of Pittsburgh it will tell
you 350,000 or whatever it is it can
also answer lots of questions in a kind
of free form with freeform answers based
on text so my favorite question that I
asked Google recently is what is the
difference between cured and uncured
bacon if you've gone to the supermarket
you've probably seen cured bacon and
uncared bacon does anyone know what the
difference is no um so cured bacon
apparently uses nitrates and uncured
bacon doesn't use a nitrates or
something like that but anyway if you
ask Google a bit can you actually answer
that for you so mainly these semantic
parsing things are useful for kind of
the general purpose sorry the database
structured queries that give you an
answer like a number or a date or
something like that as opposed to that
three four words um you can also think
of a robot command and control language
like like telling your Roomba to do
something
also another thing that I'm very excited
about nowadays if people have probably
heard me talk about is generating source
code in a language such as Python and
this can also be viewed as a type of
semantic parsing basically and I'll talk
about each of these in turn so there is
a bunch of query tasks one very classic
one is
called geo query um and this is parsing
to Prolog queries over a small database
in this this database basically is about
us geography so it's about cities in the
US or whatever so we have an example
like this so what is the population of
Iowa and that our answer is actually
this is a slightly more I pulled this
from a paper but basically you have the
population then you have the state ID
and it's kind of a first-order logic
expression like this there's also so
actually with regards to the first geo
query one this was made by Zell and
Mooney in 1996 and Ray Mooney the guy
who created this a couple years ago
basically said why is everybody still
working on geo query you should stop
working on this already and do more
interesting things so this is kind of
like the the top one is kind of like the
old one that people have done a lot of
work on but more recently there's a lot
of work on parsing to things like
freebase and answering questions over a
like wide general domain and that will
look something like this
what are the neighborhoods in New York
City how many countries use the rupee
and so New York City will need to be
mapped to a particular entity called New
York out of all the millions of entities
in freebase and how many countries use
the rupee would be something like this
so you kind of have these two x's um the
geo query one is it has these big trees
and complicated structures and stuff
like this so the the queries are very
compositional so you
combined the meaning of multiple phrases
and then you have the domain the
broadness of the domain in geo queries
up here and a lot of the kind of like
freebase question-answering stuff is
down here and both of these kind of tend
to work somewhat well like google can
answer your simple queries about
entities and stuff in geo query it's a
very limited domain and you can kind of
capture the compositionality and right
now I think people in semantic parsing
are largely working to move over to
these more like expand the domain for
the highly compositional stuff or or
make the open domain stuff more more
compositional um there's also a bunch of
other things like web questions and wiki
tables etc so if you're interested in
this kind of semantic parsing or
question answering stuff these are
something am I missing any major points
I think these are these are some of the
some of the major ones there's also a
lot of command and control tasks that
you can do so one kind of old-school one
also done by Ray Mooney is Robocop so
this is one where you give natural
language natural language instructions
to your robot soccer player that says go
go take the ball from a player number
five go defend our right wing or go take
the ball from from player number three
or something like that and these
commands get translated into this
language that the robot can then use to
interpret so here's one um if if our
player four has the ball then our player
six should stay in the left side of our
calf so it also has conditionals etc
there's also um if this than that this
is a kind of much more modern version
it's also more open domain and what it
looks like is call me if the Cubs score
so you know if the Cubs if the Cubs made
anything it's from your ESPN app if it's
new in game update Chicago Cubs then
action phone call call my phone or
something like this this is a die-hard
Cubs fan I guess because I don't want a
phone call every time the Cubs are
scoring but uh but hey you know um in
this is actually kind of interesting the
way they gathered it was was from this
website that basically has a large
collection of these so you there's quite
a few of them like a ten tens of
thousands to hundreds of thousands um in
them there are also other code
generation tasks on so this is this is a
kind of interesting task you basically
have a card from a card game and you can
take the various attributes of the card
and then you need to go and generate a a
Python class that implements this card
and this is called the hearthstone desk
this this is a data set that we made of
Django commands so an example command is
convert Col frequency into an integer
and substituted for self dot Kol
frequency and it converts this into a
Python Python command for you and
there's there's other things like this
so all of these what you probably
noticed is I was going through all of
these is basically they're taking in
some sort of natural language and
creating some sort of kind of structured
representation that looks like a tree or
in the case of in the case of geo query
it's a tree but it also has variables in
the tree
like this so so those are were the tasks
so um if we want to create a neural
model to do this our first attempt at
creating a neural model to do anything
nowadays is training a sequence to
sequence model with attention so what we
can do what we can do is basically take
our regular sequence to sequence model
with attention and then linearize
linearize the representations so for
example if it's Python you just tokenize
it you just tokenize it and treat you
treat it as one long string that looks
like with all the tokens and new lines
etc you can also take the one on the top
and just treat it as a token string and
generate it so does this work the answer
is no it doesn't really work because
often in these semantic parsing datasets
we don't have enough we don't have
enough data to learn this properly if we
have a really big data set that it does
work to some extent but particularly for
things like this is actually geo query
this is far too small for a sequence to
sequence model to learn Dez's so even in
the first attempt to do this they were a
little bit more creative than just
training a sequence to sequence model
what they did was they took their
original examples they got they
basically trained a traditional grammar
based model to that to map between
between things so an example is what are
the major cities in if they get what are
the major cities in Utah and what states
border Maine they extract rules that
basically map these into the into the
logical forms or the the code and then
once they have this they can generate
from this grammar so they just generate
a whole bunch of extra data and then
they train their sequence to sequence
model and all this generated data and
once you do not have much more much more
synthetic data than that ends up giving
you relatively reasonable results but
this is a little bit annoying because
you have to train a regular you know you
you need to train the seat synchronous
CFG and if you can train the synchronous
CFG you might as well use the
synchronous CFG for parsing in the first
place or for semantic parsing in the
first place so there are more
sophisticated and more more clean and 10
models I think this general idea of
generating synthetic data is a pretty
good one though if you can come up with
ways to do it for your particular task
like there was also one for machine
translation where they just swapped in
other words so they found words that max
matched in a lexicon and then they
swapped in other other words there um so
here's a second and slightly more
slightly more principled attempt at
creating a model to do semantic parsing
actually this paper and the other paper
both appeared in the same conference
interestingly with with different
approaches but this approach was not
about generating synthetic data this was
about using the tree structure of the
semantic representation to basically
condition things in a better way and the
way they do it is basically if we have a
tree that's lambda let's see
lambda dollar dollar zero E and then it
has kind of a child underneath it in
that child is and something something
then it first generates that top level
of the hierarchy then it moves down to
the next level in generate
everything in the next level that it
moves down to the next level of the
hierarchy it etc so basically it
generates from top down and it passes
the information from the top part down
to when it generates the next candidates
and this is good because it can kind of
it can pass information from the top
down and generate like one basically
hierarchy at a time one kind of
disadvantage of the month of this model
is that it doesn't consider what it
generated down here what is generating
stuff up here so but yeah as I said this
is about a better cut any questions
about this
so this is a the next thing this is not
limited to neural models by any means
but it's something that if you're
working in semantic parsing or thinking
of working in semantic parsing you
should definitely know as a trick or is
a very important piece of technology
that people like to use here which is
learning from weak feedback so one of
the reasons why semantic parsing is hard
is because we don't have enough semantic
annotated semantic parsing data so we
need to do we basically need to do
tricky things like generate more data or
something like that but in some cases we
can't get even get any annotated data or
it would be extremely costly to get a
significant amount of it so what we can
do instead is treat basically the
logical forms the the structured
representations that we want to use as a
weight variable and guess what that
variable is and and then when we get the
answer correct we give a boost to that
particularly logical form so an example
is what is the largest state that
borders Texas and then this Z here would
be our latent would be our latent
logical form and this can be framed as a
reinforcement learning problem so I'm
going to be talking about reinforcement
learning next time no maybe the time
after next so I won't talk about it in
detail here but basically the really
simple summary is that every time you
randomly generate one of these Z's and
if that Z is executed against the
database and then you get the correct
answer you improve its score if that C
is executed against the database and you
get an incorrect answer you decrease it
so I mean I'll talk about the math of
that in two classes
so one of the problems with this that
has been pointed out very recently in
the neural
in neural models is that you can get
spurious logical forms so an example of
this is I I want to tell my my robot to
[Music]
to bring me a bring me a coke or
something like that and the for some
reason our robot is not trained very
well so I say I say bring me a coke and
it thinks ok so it interprets it to say
and it brings it over here to me and it
happened to get it right now I say good
robot a good job and then it gets its
reward but then the next time I say
bring me a coke in this pencil is on the
table over here it goes over here so um
this is a pretty big problem if you if
you have lots of things that could
accidentally give you the correct
answers so if you think about if you
think about a robot type task like that
then you can think that there's many
ways that it could interpret it
incorrectly but still still get it
correctly
still do the correct thing and there's a
paper about how to handle this by by
encouraging exploration
um so another kind of topic in semantic
parsing is how to scale up so I had the
thing on the whiteboard over here which
is we're if we want to scale into the
open domain we're going to have to
interface with a knowledge base in in
some particular way and there's a couple
of different ways that we can do this I
am actually not super familiar with the
literature on this on this topic so if
somebody else in the room knows some
other relevant work that I could point
out please chime in but one example of
this in the neural domain that I found
was one that basically it learns in
embedding it learns in embedding four
pieces of the knowledge base like what
what is the path between particular
answers or what is the let's see what is
the value what is the answer typed what
is the context of the things around the
answer and they embed them all together
and then we they kind of do a Siamese
Network type thing
not in that Siamese Network but a
retrieval type thing where they match
what is said in the sentence to the
answer path what is said in the sentence
to the answer context what is seven
answer type and there's so this was one
example I say more on knowledge bases in
a month or so I will be covering this in
more in more detail but I felt it I will
be covering this in more detail and they
will be doing a survey so I can cover
this in more detail with more accuracy
before then but are there any like
interesting ones that I should be
mentioning here anybody work in this
space
okay well I'll defer it to in about a
month or so and I'll have a more
complete coverage of this
okay so another thing I talked about was
code generation and this is something
that's becoming more interesting I feel
this is very very interesting because
it's it's basically kind of a broader
it's like open domain semantic parsing
for knowledge bases but instead of open
domain semantic parsing for knowledge
bases it's like open domain semantic
parsing for command and control problems
so I think this is pretty cool um one of
the things in source code is that there
is a significant amount of basically
copying things word-for-word
so for example in encode you might say a
variable name you might say a variable
name and you want it to be copied as is
into code etc so this is a rather clever
model that combines together a
character-based
generation and copying of things so this
is a rather complicated it's a rather
clever model with a rather complicated
figure that's very good if you take a
long time to look at it but basically to
summarize this method has the ability to
generate things it can also copy copy
names or copy other parts of this card
like the attack etc and it can
marginalize over the various ways that
it could be generating things so I think
kind of the the interesting thing about
this paper it's it doesn't need to
decide which way it generated something
it can kind of simultaneously generate
from all of them at trading time
which makes things a bit easier so this
one the other one the other thing about
cogeneration is that we tend to have
very very big programs compared to
semantic parses standard semantic
parsing so CIN standard semantic parsing
has these trees that are usually pretty
little they have maybe four or five
internal nodes or something like that
but if you start to get a program like
the one for the cards we have these big
classes that we need to generate all at
one time so there are ways to handle
syntax the code also has syntax for
example in the form of abstract syntax
trees which so this is one of my one of
my papers with function but basically
the idea is if you take Python or any
programming language you can take a
parser and parse it into a tree
structure and then based on this tree
structure you can generate and the model
here is the model here is very similar
to the sequence to tree model but we do
things a little bit more basically you
can remember everything that you've
generated so far which was not the case
for the tree to sequence model and this
syntax is very very important for code
generation it's more important for code
generation than it is for standard
semantic parsing tasks so this is this
is pretty useful in this context um so
that was kind of a brief overview of
like special purpose meaning
representation parsing are there any
questions or discussions
this one are the one before okay sure Oh
the output is that's a good question so
the output would basically do you like
we have lambda dollar zero e then we
have a node I guess and then this is an
so this n is like it's like an internal
load so yeah I probably should have
showed the truth from the tree here too
but basically that n is a internal node
and then all the text that you see down
there is the stuff that's actually
generated now put us a tree structure
here so in semantic parsing generally
that research or a graph structure which
I'm going to talk about more next okay
so
so for general purpose meaning
representation um there's a few
disappear at a few good things about
meaning representation that we would
want to have in any general purpose
representation that was also outlined in
the reading material but one is
verifiability so ability to ground it
with a knowledge base etc this is good
if you want to do question answering or
whatever on ambiguity one representation
should have one meaning canonical form
one meaning should have one
representation inference ability you
should be able to draw conclusions from
this representation and expressiveness
you should be able to handle a wide
variety of subject matter with this so
there is no meaning representation that
does all of these well there are meaning
representations that try very hard to do
this but in reality satisfying all of
these at once is quite a difficult task
especially the last one but anyway um
one kind of representation that it's
quite common to use is first-order logic
so I think most people know something
about first-order logic but just in case
you you haven't heard about it in a
while um you have logical symbols
connectives variables constants etc so
for example there exists a restaurant X
X serves Mexican food and the location
of X is close to the location of X Z so
you can see that this corresponds to
there is a restaurant that serves
Mexican food near mixing and all
vegetarian restaurants serve vegetarian
food all vegetarian restaurants X
implies serves serves X vegetarian and
also importantly lambda calculus allows
you to express functions and this lambda
calculus here is very important because
you can kind of define
basically many many verbs or many
predicates will take arguments and based
on the arguments that the predicate
takes it can it can swap in the things
swapped in the arguments into this
meaning representation so because of
this first-order logic is used pretty
widely there's of course better
representations or more expressive
representations but this is kind of go
to Vegas um there is also a ton of other
of other meaning representations one
that people have used quite widely is
abstract meaning representation it came
out pretty recently it's designed to be
simpler and easier for humans to read
and it's in a graph format with
arguments that mean the same thing is
linked together so this looks like this
so if we have our first-order logic on
the top we have instance instance want
instance GGO one instance bboy arg0 WB r
0w g r0 g b so does anyone understand
this if you look at the AMR formats you
can see want the argument 0 of want is
boy the argument one of want is go and
the argument 0 of goal is boy so that
makes it a little bit more clear right
you can kind of see that there's a boy
that wants something and and that what
he wants is going so the boy wants to go
and this can also be expressed as a
graph that looks like this um one of the
other good things about this is a
relatively large annotated tree bank is
available or they call it a SEM big it's
not a tree bank because it's grass but
they call it a some big so if you want
supervised training data for this
you can also get it there's lots and
lots of other formalisms a couple of
them that I've seen in papers recently
are minimum minimal recursion semantics
so this is basically a variety of
first-order logic the idea behind it is
that it strives to be as flat as
possible to preserve ambiguities as much
as you can without trying very hard to
resolve it another one is universal
conceptual cognitive annotation the idea
behind this is that it wants to be very
close to the original sentence so like
try to use the words in the original
sentence as much as possible while still
giving a very minimum of like the
relationship between all of these and P
for example is the the predicate a are
actors in some way and then D is a
modifier various any questions about
this
so um the first thing that the first
thing to note is said syntax and
semantics have a very strong correlation
between them and we generally have much
more data that's annotated with syntax
we have the penn treebank that is it
which is annotated with lots and lots of
syntax trees we have other tree banks
etc and because there's a very strong
connection between syntax and semantics
given syntax we can get semantics much
much more cheaply
well maybe almost automatically not
entirely automatically but we can get a
lot of the stuff that we want so there
was an example of of rules that
basically take CFG derivations and
convert them into first-order logic in
the reading materials these were
manually created rules so they're not
perfect of course they can't resolve
some of the ambiguity necessary but this
is one example um you can also convert
dependencies to first-order logic
there's quite a bit of of work on this
this is a very recent one and then
there's also other methods there's some
unsupervised methods that take in
dependency trees and try to convert them
into logic and then one other very very
popular method is combinatory categorial
grammar CCG in converting this to
first-order logic and this he has a few
desirable properties that have made it
very popular with people in semantic
parsing and i will explain about them
next
so CCG it's basically a simple syntactic
formalism but it has very strong
connections to logical form and
syntactic tags are combinations of
elementary expressions
so this is an example of what a CCG
derivation looks like so interestingly
it doesn't have any verbs you can see
here there's no there's no V tag unlike
the penn treebank and the reason why is
because all verbs are expressed in this
kind of strange notation where you have
s's and PS and lots and lots of slashes
and what these basically mean is s backs
s backslash MP in brackets with
what this basically means here is we
first reduced the thing on the right
side so the forward slash means first we
take this MP and we combine this thing
with an NP and that gives us the
remaining thing s backslash N P and then
we we take the MP on the left side and
combine that together to get an S so you
can see that's exactly what happens
borders in Idaho get combined together
to the s backslash and then borders
Idaho gets combined with the with Utah
then you end up getting borders Utah
Idaho um and the reason why CCG is quite
popular in semantic parsing well okay so
there are strong syntactic constraints
and what tags can be combined and much
weaker constraints than CFG on what tags
can be assigned to a particular word
sorry I thought I had an extra bullet
point here but what I wanted to say was
basically it's once you have these
syntactic tags there's often a very very
strong correlation with these lambda
calculus expressions so the way you
combine things together into the
semantics form very strongly follows the
syntax according to this formalism so
this is why people in semantic parsing
tend to like this over something like
CFG which is a little bit more vague um
what you should know about CCG is it has
very very strong syntactic constraints
on which tanks can be combined but much
weaker constraints on what tags can be
assigned to a particular word so a verb
can potentially have many many different
types of tags assigned to it for example
if it's a verb that could be
simply blinking above it it's a
transitive verb or a by transitive verb
it could have it could take a subject in
an object or it could take a subject in
two objects so it could have two
different two different tags there um in
reality you have actually many many more
tags if you had a preposition or a
prepositional phrase or something like
that um so based on those two things
this introduces kind of two new methods
that people like to use for these tasks
what is called super tagging um so super
tagging it's a cool name for something
that's really simple it's just caddy
with a really big tag set but the the
CCG symbols there can be hundreds of
them um but basically as I said before
we have very strong syntactic
constraints once we know our tags so if
we can generate those tags very very
accurately we can basically reduce our
syntactic parse candidate to one if we
can predict the tags a hundred percent
accurately so this is this is very very
effective at basically helping CCG
parsing become more effective or more
more accurate um so in terms of methods
to solve this standard lsdm taggers with
a few tricks performed very well and
improved parsing one of the things that
you is they basically model the
compositionality of the tags so we have
like we have a thousand different tags
and because we have a thousand different
tags we don't want to model each one of
them separately because we won't be able
to get the long tail of tags well so
they actually take into account the fact
that this tag is basically a tree
basically a tree of tags and learn the
representation for the
and they also use a few of the tricks
like scheduled sampling which I talked
about before to prevent error
propagation but overall it's a pretty
simple model and it gets very good
results um are there any questions about
this okay yeah
so um that's a very very good question
um first first-order logic expressions
are relatively simple to kind of
deterministic we turn into queries over
knowledge graphs etc so for example
borders orders Utah Idaho you could look
up earth sorry what what states border
Texas so you get something like this you
get something like this and you can
basically convert it into select state
where where it states orders Texas or
select state X where in exporters Texas
and if you if you query a knowledge
graph they actually have a thing some
people know this but there's a query
language old SPARQL that basically takes
queries that look almost exactly like
this the one thing that you do actually
need to be careful about is this is just
using English words right so it's not
entirely simple to go from the word
border to the symbol corresponding to
borders in the null in the knowledge
graph or in the SPARQL language so you
do kind of need to ground
you need to ground the word and the
knowledge base together when you're
grading there's learning that lexicon
that basically grounds those two things
together it's probably the hardest part
of CCG based questions um there's a lot
of work on that though if you're
interested in you can look up
okay so parsing to graph structures so
um CCG is a kind of like a syntax syntax
driven semantic parsing method on
there's also methods for parsing
directly to the graph structures that we
want to generate so most of the semantic
representations can be represented as
some sort of directed acyclic graph so
you saw the example of Amr so EMR is
basically a graph where a single node
represents an entity and they might be
connected together with our argument
links so a very common or a common way
to do this is to take a regular
transition based parser where that
transition based parser normally could
only generate trees and then you modify
its transition system so it's able to
also generate graphs so um a couple
examples of this are basically creating
an AMR parser where when you do write
arc it doesn't reduce it doesn't delete
the node or sorry doesn't delete the the
word from the top of the stack and by
doing this you can basically create
links to the same word over and over and
over again another example is for you
CCA adding some special transitions and
I'll give an example of this later um
another way to do this this is the kind
of giving up way where you where you say
I really want to run my sequence to
sequence model on a parsing desk so you
you basically do some sort of win
linearization and insert pseudo tokens
for for where your reentering into the
graph so this this is another way to do
so
so here's an example for the for the UCC
a graph so the UCC a graph has these
internal notes that are all linked to
the words and it has kind of the normal
transition system we're where you can do
shift and reduce for example so shift
takes one word off the buffer and moves
it to the step reduce in this case it's
a little bit different from the reduce
this time this time it just removes the
thing from the top of the stack
essentially so it's it says I'm done
with this word I don't need to do
anything more with this word another
thing you can do is is node X so node X
basically adds adds a node of a
particular type and then it also creates
a link in edge from the thing on the top
of the buffer to the stack so to the to
the node I'm sorry yeah it adds the node
to the top of the buffer and then it
creates a link between that and the
thing on the top of the stack so for
example if you look at the first thing
here you would first shift after and put
it onto the top of the stack then you
would create a node do the node L action
which would then put a node on the top
of the buffer - with a link - after and
then it has left edge and right edge
that allows you to create kind of the
solid edges here and then it also has
these left to remote right remote things
so these remote edges are basically the
dashed line here so John moved to Paris
is kind of the main predicate involving
John but also
graduated right so you can see that John
John and graduation are also late as in
action so I won't go through the entire
the entire system it also has a SWAT
action and let's see so maybe you can
really quickly show so the I think the
difficult thing is the Oracle how to
create a in Oracle that basically tells
you what the correct action is so that I
think dan has an example of that here
you see a paper implemented their paper
in dinette in Python and it is online so
you can go look at that if you're
interested the codes you can tell this
isn't my code because it is really clear
unless the written code oh so what
you're doing this when you start you
define your set of action see if your
node remote node implicit um then right
edge remote left edge left remote so
this is what Graham was just talking
about with your set of actions
oh then the real sort of part where
things get done in the Oracle it is here
in generate actions um
yeah what's this
good run
cool so there should be um I found this
to be fairly self descriptive um so when
you start you basically check if there's
nothing in the buffer and the stack and
there's no just remaining in the snow
glaybels remaining you finish um if
there's a stack and the stack top of the
stack does not need a label you can
reduce and pop that off the sack then if
it has a stack and there are just
remaining on incoming and outgoing you
can create this increment and outgoing
sets but if they do not exist and you do
not need a level reduce and
learn at the outgoings or terminals you
can add this label if there is incoming
that means you potentially need a new
node so if the edges parent is one of
there are many nodes and it's not
implicit and it's not remote you can add
this edge and then it's sort of similar
for the rest of it but I think this
quote is very clear and what's exactly
but I don't know the whole thing I think
this code is a little bit complicated
it's a little bit more complicated than
the stuff that we saw for the other
shift reduce parser but on the other
hand this is the most complicated part
of applying a shift reduce parser to a
new problem coming up with this Oracle
and what transitions you want to do so
if you have a new graph that you want to
parse you have a new type of tree that
you want to parse then then coming up
with if you can come up with this Oracle
you can apply a kind of a transition
based method to it so the main takeaway
from this is that's not just for trees
you can also do it for grabs we would
take the viewport and then add a few
more options at the updates for the
actions and so yeah thanks umm one one
thing one interesting thing that uh that
Dan said during our TA meeting but he
didn't say here was if you look at the
if you look at the transitions of a
transition based parser sometimes you
can find transitions that are like swap
swap swap swap swap reduce swap swap
swap swap swap or things like this when
when you have a transition system that
isn't like well adapted to the problem
though so I did I did say it's as simple
as coming up with your transition system
but coming
up with a good transition system might
be might not necessarily be a trivial ie
myself have not come up with a
transition system so I can't give advice
about that but it's worth thinking about
well so the final thing I'm going to
talk about this time is cello semantics
and the idea behind cello semantics the
most common version of it is semantic
role labeling but basically its label
who did what to whom on a spam level
basis so the idea is she blames the
government for failing to do enough to
help so blame is a semantic role and
when you blame somebody there is a judge
that's blaming somebody that judge
evaluates somebody and there's a reason
why why they're basically just blaming
somebody and each verb has different
roles basically so blame has certain
roles each has certain roles decide he
has certain roles so in a way this is
kind of like an open domain semantic
parsing tasks but it can be reduced to
its open domain in the domain of
basically verbs so you'll have lots and
lots of verbs that you don't really know
what to do with but on the other hand
you just need to label spans which makes
things a lot easier and you need to so
the good thing about this is that you
could then go and say what do people
tend to blame people for like what are
the reasons why people tend to get
blamed
etc so you can ask fairly deep questions
about stuff so neural models for a
semantic role labeling there's a couple
models for this one of the interesting
things is the bottle that currently
works the best I think is basically just
a
Alessia model we're the input to the
model is the predicate that you want to
label so it's or it's all the words in
the sentence and then the predicate gets
a binary variable one that basically
says this is the the semantic role that
I'm looking to label and then it just
outputs tags that are beginning of
argument zero in argument zero to the
end of argument zero than beginning of
argument one all the way to the end of
argument so it's a it's a super simple
model it doesn't even I believe it
doesn't even have a CRF or anything but
it works pretty well
and maybe the most interesting part of
the paper is the analysis the analysis
shows a lot of things like that this
model is quite a bit better at
everything than it other models that
have been proposed but you can look at
the details in the paper um so yeah that
that's all we have all I have for this
time are there any other questions about
semantics for semantic parsing relates
okay if not all I'll finish up here
thanks a lot